Alright, hold on to your pants,
because, in this video,
we are going to be making things look great.
We're gonna be using a library called Styled Components
in order to write the CSS
that we need to style our application now.
Let's talk about CSS in React real quick,
so there's a couple ways to do CSS in a React application.
The most basic being, do it the way you've always done it.
So, what you can do
is you can simply write your CSS in a .css file.
You could open up your meta file,
and just do a regular old link tag,
and then, inside of all your components,
you can add classes to your elements,
and select them based on that,
and you're good to go.
Or, you can run SASS, and compile that to CSS,
and put it in there.
However, there is a fairly popular way
of writing CSS in React application
that's sort of got the name CSS in JS.
Used to be called Inline CSS,
which I think rubbed people wrong, the wrong way.
So, it's sort of settle on CSS in JS.
And, essentially, what that means
is you are writing the styles for your application
inside of your JavaScript application,
and usually they're fairly coupled
with the actual components that need to be created.
So, if I have a button that needs to be
red and white text and a certain font size,
I might couple that with the actual button itself
because they go together.
Or, even when style components in a couple of
these libraries you can make a reusable button
that you can use to write your application.
Similar to how you would create a class
that you could reuse throughout your entire application.
Now, what's the benefit of that?
Well, the biggest benefit of it
is that you don't have the concept of global styling.
We do, we're actually going to be using that.
But, if you write a specific styles for that button,
there's no way for it to leak outside
and maybe accidentally apply those styles to something else.
Have you ever written some CSS
where you applied a class to something
or you wrote a selector based on an element
and then something else on the page broke
because the styles accidentally applied to that?
With this, we're really going to be containing our styles.
Now, there's all kinds of opinions
whether this is the best way or a terrible way
or if people have a problem with CSS,
then you might already have, like, you may be using them.
You might be really happy with that,
and I would encourage you to keep going with that,
if you are familiar and you're comfortable with that.
So, I'm not really forcing any one on anyone,
but we are going to be using Styled Components in this.
There's a whole bunch of other ones.
A whole bunch of other CSS in JS1's.
But, I really like this one.
I use it in my own applications,
and the reason why I like it the best
is because it looks exactly like normal CSS.
Some of them have you writing objects
where you have to camelcase stuff,
and you have property values,
and it gets a little bit hairy.
And, if your doing media queries it gets pretty hairy.
And, in this, you are writing your CSS
just as if you are writing it in a .dot CS file.
And, that's what I really like about it,
with a couple little exceptions.
So, let's take a look at how this actually works.
First of all, before you even get started,
make sure that you have a, if you're using VS code,
grab the VS code styled components extension
and what that's going to do is it's going to give you
regular CSS highlighting inside of our JavaScript files.
Now, the way that we us style components is, well,
let's back it up.
Open up page.js and let's give ourselves
just a regular button.
Oh, a button.
A button that says click me.
And, if I wanted to make this button
red with white text and a large font size,
normally what you'd do is give it a class name
of, like, a button
and then you might use like ben, or button.
Underscore, underscore, large,
and then maybe button underscore, underscore,
large dash, dash, red.
You get the point, right?
You can go on from there.
But, that's not what we want to do.
With styled components,
you essentially replace the actual element itself
with a custom component that has the styles attached to it.
So, we can go up here
and import styled from Styled Components,
and that styled inside of it has access
to all the different elements that you might want to create.
So, we can go here
and say const MyButton is equal to styled.
And, then, we simply choose the element
that we wish to create.
Might be a div.
Might be a unordered list.
Might be a h1 tag.
In our case, we want to make a button
and you give it back text.
Now, if you've taken my ES6 course,
you'll know that this is what is called
a tag template literal,
where it works similar to how a function works,
where you can just have a button
and put all of your styles in here.
But, instead of it being a function
and passing it arguments,
it's just a string that has been tagged
with this specific styled.button,
and then inside of there we simply just go
and say, like, background: red, font-size: 100px,
and then we go down here to where the button is
and you replace that with your custom component,
which is MyButton.
And, then, that is essentially just going to create
a button HTML element with the following styles
that have been attached to it.
And, we're gonna see how we can put these in separate files.
You can export and import them
and make them reusable throughout your entire application.
But, for now, I'm just putting them in the same file.
If we go back to our application here.
Oh, there we go.
We see that our button is now being used,
and anytime that I want those styles to be applied,
I can just use the component MyButton,
as many times as I want, and it is going to apply styles.
Under the hood,
you can actually see what it's doing in HTML CSS land,
as it gives it these kinda unique classes VvnLs,
and there you see that the CSS is being applied to it.
Now, there's a couple more things we need to know
about how Style Components work.
Let's go into those right now.
What happens if you have, like, a span inside of it,
and, inside that span, you maybe have like, I don't know,
a poop emoji,
and you want to make that poop emoji even bigger.
Let's make this 50px.
And, you got the poop emoji.
Like, how do you make this poop emoji even bigger?
Well, there's kinda two options here.
First of all, what you can do
is you can make another styled component,
const BigPoop is equal to, don't tweet this, styled.span
and we'll say font size 100px.
And, then, we just swap out our span with a BigPoop,
and you'll see that it is swapping it out.
However, that probably seems like a little bit much
because it's likely that this big poop
is always going to be inside of my button.
And, if you don't need to reuse this big poop
anywhere else in this entire project,
then you can just bring it back to a span
and get rid of the second component that we've created.
And, you can just use like nested selectors inside of here.
So, you can just say span, it's going to be font-size 100.
And, that will give us exactly what we're looking for.
What I really like about that
is there's no need to actually give this a class,
unless you had a couple spans in there
and you want to target that one specifically.
But, there's no use in having
very specific class names inside of here
because I'll never have to,
I only have to be as specific as I need it.
In this case,
I can just grab the span that's inside of it, right?
If you wanted to, you could give it a class name of poop.
And then you go up here and just swap that out with a .poop,
and, if we inspect it,
you'll see that it still looks exactly the same.
But, if you were to inspect it,
you'll see that the class is poop,
which could be tainted from outside,
but the selector that we have written
has that unique identifier being applied to each one.
So, I'm a big fan of that.
I tend to not go overboard
with creating individual style components,
unless I find myself being like, huh,
I'd like to reuse that one little piece.
Maybe I'll refactor that out
into a separate styled component
that I can reuse throughout the application.
Otherwise, I think it's fine to use
nested selectors inside of your main component
that you have here.
Otherwise, I find it gets a little bit out of hand.
You'll probably stumble upon a cadence similar to that
or something that you prefer for you and your team.
The last thing that we need to know
about these styled components is that they can have props.
So, if I just had a huge prop right here.
What we can do is, inside of here,
because this is just JavaScript at the end of the day.
We have the entire language of JavaScript
available to us to do things like logic,
and if statements and switches,
and whatever you would like.
So, I could just replace font-size
with a interpolated string right here,
'cause, remember, this is just back text
at the end of the day.
So, we can use our ES interpolation here
and you have to give it a function.
So, you say props and we'll use a arrow function here.
And, say props .huge,
if that is true the font size is going to be a 100px,
otherwise it's going to be 50px.
And, got a bit of an error here.
I think I goofed up something.
Here we are, I forgot a quote.
Good.
And, you see that it's huge there,
but, if I were to duplicate this button
and not have the huge attribute on,
the other one should be a bit smaller.
So, you can create a sort of variance on it.
You can pass arguments to it by doing something like
huge="100" and you can literally pass the value
to the CSS if you wanted to do that.
It's really nice and flexible.
I'm a big fan of it.
And, that's what we're going to be using
throughout this course.
So, with that said,
let's go through and start scaffolding out
the rest of the application.
Getting our fonts in place, getting our theme values,
that's one thing we haven't done,
is you can also use theme values
inside of Styled Components.
And, just get it looking decent,
so that we can start cutting loose,
learning GraphQL get Prisma set up and all that good stuff.
So, let's back this up,
which is unnecessary for our actual application.
Delete, delete, delete, delete.
Good.
And, then, I will remove.
That's kinda nice VS code will gray out
any import statements that are unused,
so you can just remove them from there.
I'll see you in the next video.